# Log: Weeks 11 and 12 of learning Web Development

## Week 11 (04.03 to 04.09)

At the end of last week, I managed to finish section 23 of the Udemy bootcamp and basically get back
to where I finished off the first time I went through it. From now on, it's only new material and
I'm really excited due to the fact that I'm going to learn how HTML, CSS and JS interact within a
web page/app.

I'm still thinking deeply about my learning strategy, and I think I'm not giving up with other
resources but still prioritizing Udemy.

This week has been challenging however, not particularly regarding education, but health. In Japan
right now, it's the _Sakura_ season, with beautiful cherry blossoms in full bloom and people
organizing _Hanami_, spending time and having fun while enjoying beautiful sights. But cherry
blossoms means spring season is coming, and allergies are in full force too. I've got such a
terrible hay fever for the past 3-4 weeks, and adding to that, I also got the influenza. Needless to
say, even though I tried moving forward with my learning, I couldn't focus at all, it was so tough
getting started.

After so much struggle, eventually I got better, and I'm ready to tackle my learning next week.

## Week 12 (04.10 to 04.16)

This week, I'm trying to get back on track with my learning. It's true that I fell behind by quite a
lot these past few weeks. However, I feel like distancing myself for some time is actually
productive as I feel more motivated and energized before tackling learning sessions. To make my
learning as easy as possible, I still use Pomodoro and it's still as effective as when I started
using it.

At the beginning of the week, I resumed my learning on Udemy and actually went through sections 24
and 25 much faster than I expected. It's all about the DOM (Document Object Model), and literally
using JavaScript to interact with HTML content. I find it definitely more enjoyable than the
theoretical JS lessons from previous sections since I can make web pages interactive from now on.

Being able to make a UI (or front-end I guess in the Web Dev jargon) interactive makes my learning
really interesting! I actually made this week's goal to finish sections 24 and 25, but I'm currently
at section 27 learning about Async JavaScript.

What I enjoyed was the little project, a Ping Pong Score Keeper that looks really good. I tried to
do the project on my own and actually managed to code the logic by myself to some extent. I
refactored it and was satisfied with my solution, but the instructor's refactoring was, I admit,
more efficient. So I still have a lot to learn and need to think a bit differently. It's all a
learning experience! No shame in that!

Even though it's taken from a course, I will probably make a GitHub repo out of it so I can show it
and have a trace of my progress.

Now I'm trying to move forward with The Odin Project that I put aside, because what I've learned
until now with Udemy, I'm tackling similar topics on TOP as well. I went through the _Rock, Paper,
Scissors_ project which was quite interesting. It's only JavaScript based right now, but I managed
to get the logic going, and very satisfied with my solution! Hopefully, as it's going to be
revisited in the future I'll be able to make a more visually appealing solution!

In the meantime, besides Web Development, I thought of creating my own C app to track tennis scores,
very similar to the Ping Pong Score Keeper. The logic is very different, but as I'm writing it in C,
it's good practice as well. I'd like to be able to make a GUI too so it's convenient to use.
Probably in the future, make it a smartphone app as well? Depending on time, energy and commitment
because, still, web development is my priority as of now.

On Saturday, I made an enormous progress on the Udemy course, where I completed the section about
Async Javascript, which was not as complicated as I thought, but I believe I need more experience in
projects to truly understand how it works in real-life situations. In the same vein, I completed
section 28 with AJAX and Axios, learning how to make requests and gather data from APIs, learning
about the JSON format that I've seen very often.

I skipped section 29 about OOP, prototypes and classes, but I'm coming back to it later, as I wanted
to get to _less dry_ sections, and I'm glad I did. I started learning about Node.js and the
different modules. I also went through the **Mastering The Terminal** section quite quickly as this
is a tool I use on a daily basis.

All in all, tremendous progress that I'm proud of this week, as I'm getting into more concrete and
interesting sections, and getting closer to starting the big project of this Udemy bootcamp.
Although I progressed on The Odin Project and FreeCodeCamp, I'm looking forward to starting this
great project from the Udemy course.

With all the knowledge I accumulated so far on the latter, I can confidently tackle the few projects
on The Odin Project as well. I'm still on the Responsive Design section on FreeCodeCamp that I
believe I'll finish soon, I just need to put some time in.

I think this week has been the most productive in a while due to my regained interest and more
interesting content. I'm looking forward to the following weeks when I'm going to tackle some
back-end stuff!!
