# Log: Week 13 of learning Web Development

## Week 13 (04.17 to 04.23)

This is the entry that sums up the Monday of that week.

Since the end of last week, I have been studying for long periods of time using Pomodoro. It's
incredibly effective. At the same time, to remain focused, I tend to leave my phone out of my sight
and on _Do not disturb_ mode.

I realized that the "drier" sections made me less motivated and I was about to give up or take even
more time in my learning, by delaying my studying sessions. However, I pulled through and managed to
get to really interesting sessions in my Udemy bootcamp. While my goal last week was to finish
sections 24 and 25 that are about JavaScript concepts, in a couple of days, I managed to get to the
end of section 34.

I learned about Node.js, NPM (Node Package Manager), how to install Node packages, setting up
Express.js to learn about back-end, and even HTML templating using EJS. It's really fun now how
everything is coming together and I can even see great content.

A couple of months ago, I was trying to learn Django, a web framework for Python, kind of similar
then to Express. At the time, because I was still learning the fundamentals languages of web
development, I had trouble focusing on both. But now, the little knowledge I got from trying to
learn Django is making my learning about back-end with Express a little easier.

**So, no learning is useless.**

I just completed the section about HTML templating at around 21:30 and I initially thought of
continuing but with Pomodoro, I've been studying close to 4 hours. Even though it's just learning
stuff, I realize that I should try creating my own little projects on the side using that newfound
knowledge. **Applying knowledge** is much more important than simply absorbing it. That's what makes
the difference.

I'm actually very happy with the tremendous progress I made just last weekend and today. Pages can
start looking good. I noticed that this bootcamp is not teaching any React. The Odin Project and
FreeCodeCamp however are touching upon it. So it makes sense that I should keep going with these
other resources.

Maybe for the following days I'm going to continue with The Odin Project and trying to finish at
least the JavaScript section, and at the same time the Foundations course. There are a couple of
projects that seem very interesting that I can add to my GitHub and portfolio in the end.

I'm sure it will take some time. But with all that I've been learning as of late, my motivation came
back and I want to complete it even more.

On that note, there are a few companies based in Tokyo that are currently hiring. And reading
success stories about how their current employees joined the company makes me want to complete my
courses and fill up my portfolio. Again, I have other companies too in my radar that I'm eager to
join, and I realize how mastering Web Development can open so many doors. Language barrier can be an
issue but I'm also working on my Japanese. It's a lifelong process but I hope I can communicate
quite clearly in the future.

---

Actually, I did not log any activity until the end of the week and the following 3 weeks, as I was
feeling like I was burning out from all the studying, constantly learning without applying.

So I had to take a step back, move away from all the learning for a couple of weeks to reset. As I
was going through tough moments in my personal life as well, I found it difficult to balance all of
those things at once.
