# Log: Week 1 and 2 of learning Web Development

### Week 1 (01.23 to 01.29)

I decided to restart my learning of Web Development. These past few months, I was learning Data
Science and Machine Learning, and I was faced with the task of making a portfolio. But I didn't know
where to start. So I made the choice to reorient myself towards Web Development. Also, companies I'm
targeting have several offers for Full-Stack engineers, Front-end and Back-end developers. And I
feel like it would be easier for me to make a portfolio for web development anyway.

This week was all about basics, setup for web development, and what web development is. So not much
coding although I was already familiar with most of the notions that were taught.

I was getting familiar with FreeCodeCamp, by starting the [Responsive Web
Design](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/2022/responsive-web-design/) module. Project-based, I
feel this is an excellent way to understand new concepts. And I finished the first 2 projects: a cat
photo app that used only HTML, and a cafe menu that used HTML and basic CSS. I was very proud of
finishing those two.

I also finished the first 4 sections of the Udemy bootcamp, with HTML semantics last, which was my
January goal. It's something I knew already but a refresher isn't all that bad.

Then, I could start my learning on The Odin Project as well, which uses resources from YouTube as
well. The good thing is that it's open-source and it's very well structured, I really enjoy the way
it's been constructed. I completed the Introduction section and started the Prerequisites one, which
is all about setting up your system.

Quite easy for me since I've been using Ubuntu daily for the past 2 years, and instead of using VS
Code, which was recommended by all, I'm using Vim instead.

On that topic, I started looking at YouTube videos to learn how I can use Vim more efficiently. And
it's been an eye-opener to find out how powerful it can be without plugins.

[This is the one I watched](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wlR5gYd6um0). And it's really
fascinating. Though I'd say to stick with whichever editor you're using now instead of trying to
learn Vim now. Learn it on your free time as a first-timer.

### Week 2 (01.30 to 02.05)

I managed to complete all the goals for this week including the CSS Colors and the HTML forms
projects from FreeCodeCamp.

Secondly, on The Odin Project, aka TOP, I completed the _Working with text_ lesson in the _HTML
Foundations_ section. Quite easy for me as I've been also watching the Udemy bootcamp that dealt
with that topic as well.

Quite proud of the achievement, progressing little by little each day. I still find it hard to
adjust to this rhythm as I'm used to doing so much in the day. Binging on the bootcamp videos, and
trying to squeeze as much as possible. This feels more sustainable.

When I wasn't actively working on learning Web Development, I wanted to spend some time learning
[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), the Python framework to develop web apps. I managed to go
until tutorial 3. It's very different from static HTML/CSS, but eventually, I believe I'll have to
work with framework such as React.js or Vue.js for Front-End, and then Back-End frameworks like
Django, ExpressJS, Spring Boot or Ruby on Rails. It's a good introduction.

<hr>

I think I made amazing progress these past two weeks. I know this is because it's relatively new.
But pacing myself is definitely a great strategy, as well as planning by hand on a notebook, so I
can witness my progress at a glance.

I'm going to continue to log my learning journey on this blog, and I hope this can inspire you as
well.

If this post inspired you for your learning, please leave a comment below. See you in the next post.
