# Today, I completed a milestone

On this day, May 24, 2023, I completed a milestone in my Web Development
learning. Although I promised myself last month that I would prioritize my Udemy
bootcamp over the other two resources, I still find myself juggling between all
three.

The Udemy bootcamp is delving into back-end development right now, but I don't
feel like I've learnt enough front-end yet. For instance, there's no section on
learning a front-end framework such as React (which is the most popular
JavaScript front-end framework as of late). However, it's mentioned in _The Odin
Project_ and _freeCodeCamp_.

So these past few days, I've spent some hours getting to complete the
Foundations course on **The Odin Project**. I'm proud to have finished it, and
it actually took me about 5 months.

I really enjoyed learning new concepts in that course, as it relies quite
frequently on external resources for us to study. And there are a lot of
projects interspersed between the lessons. Although there's some guidance, it's
not like a _code along_ but you get some hints as to how you may accomplish
something but the implementation is your own. That's **Hands-on learning** and I
enjoyed it very much.

Because I finished it, I now have to choose the next path, either going the
_Ruby_ route with _Ruby On Rails_, or _JavaScript_ route with Express, NodeJS,
React and other popular new frameworks.

I chose the JavaScript as there's a high-demand of such developers and as I've
already learnt some JavaScript during the Foundations, I wouldn't be hold back
by learning another programming language (even though it would be simply
learning another syntax).

So I'm looking forward to learning more using The Odin Project, and try to match
the timelines of all three resources so that I can learn web development in
depth.
